Update inference doc (#11428)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/common/production_inference.rst

.. _production_inference:

#######################
Inference in Production
#######################

> Since :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule` is just :class:`torch.nn.Module`, all the possible inferencing techniques for deploying PyTorch models to production
> apply here too. Lightning provides some helper methods to help you out with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule` is simply a :class:`torch.nn.Module`, common techniques to export PyTorch models to production apply here too. However, the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule` provides helper methods to help you out with it.
```

---------------

> **********

Reviewer: I would add a section on best practices with the introduction of the System. Meaning you lift nn.Module, so you don't need PyTorch Lightning dependency in production.

Author: I have introduced two separate sections, `With Lightning` and `Without Lightning`.  need your review :)

Using ONNX
**********

Lightning provides a handy function to quickly export your model to `ONNX <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/onnx.html>`_ format
which allows the model to be independent of PyTorch and run on an ONNX Runtime.

To export your model to ONNX format call the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.to_onnx` function on your :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule` with the ``filepath`` and ``input_sample``.

.. code-block:: python

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    filepath = "model.onnx"
    model = SimpleModel()
    input_sample = torch.randn((1, 64))
    model.to_onnx(filepath, input_sample, export_params=True)

> You can also skip passing the input sample if the ``example_input_array`` property is specified in your :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule`.

Reviewer: Let's add an example there.

.. code-block:: python

    class LitMCdropoutModel(pl.LightningModule):
        def __init__(self, model, mc_iteration):
            super().__init__()
            self.model = model
            self.dropout = nn.Dropout()
            self.mc_iteration = mc_iteration

        def predict_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
            # enable Monte Carlo Dropout
            self.dropout.train()

            # take average of `self.mc_iteration` iterations
            pred = torch.vstack([self.dropout(self.model(x)).unsqueeze(0) for _ in range(self.mc_iteration)]).mean(dim=0)
            return pred

------------

PyTorch Runtime
===============

You can also load the saved checkpoint and use it as a regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`.

.. code-block:: python

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    # create the model
    model = SimpleModel()

    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(gpus=2)
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)

>     trainer.save_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt")

Author: 100%

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    # create the model
    model = SimpleModel()
    filepath = "model.onnx"
    input_sample = torch.randn((1, 64))
    model.to_onnx(filepath, input_sample, export_params=True)

You can also skip passing the input sample if the ``example_input_array`` property is specified in your :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule`.

.. code-block:: python

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)
            self.example_input_array = torch.randn(7, 64)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    # create the model
    model = SimpleModel()
    filepath = "model.onnx"
    model.to_onnx(filepath, export_params=True)

Once you have the exported model, you can run it on your ONNX runtime in the following way:

.. code-block:: python

>     ort_session = onnxruntime.InferenceSession(filepath)

Reviewer 2: The import statement could be added here.
```suggestion
    import onnxruntime

    ort_session = onnxruntime.InferenceSession(filepath)
```

in your production environment.

------------

Prediction API
==============

Lightning provides you with a prediction API that can be accessed using :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer.predict`.
To configure this with LightningModule, you need to override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method.
By default :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` calls the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.forward`
method. In order to customize this behaviour, simply override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method.

For the example let's override ``predict_step`` and try out `Monte Carlo Dropout <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.02142.pdf>`_:

.. code-block:: python

    class LitMCdropoutModel(pl.LightningModule):
        def __init__(self, model, mc_iteration):
            super().__init__()
            self.model = model
            self.dropout = nn.Dropout()
            self.mc_iteration = mc_iteration

>         def predict_step(self, batch, batch_idx):

Reviewer: It should be possible to jit the predict_step right ?

Author: yes, scripting will be possible with torch.jit.export decorator and tracing can be possible with `torch.jit.trace(m.predict_step, ...)`.
by default it will trace the forward method in Lightning export methods. Do you think we should trace `predict_step` or maybe provide an argument to let the user choose instead?

Reviewer: Let's show the example with torch.jit.export and MCDropout. Some notes on this would be neat :)

            # enable Monte Carlo Dropout
            self.dropout.train()

            # take average of `self.mc_iteration` iterations
            pred = [self.dropout(self.model(x)).unsqueeze(0) for _ in range(self.mc_iteration)]
            pred = torch.vstack(pred).mean(dim=0)
            return pred

------------

PyTorch Runtime
===============

You can also load the saved checkpoint and use it as a regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`.

.. code-block:: python

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    # create the model
    model = SimpleModel()

    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(gpus=2)
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
    trainer.save_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt", weights_only=True)

    # use model after training or load weights and drop into the production system

>     model = SimpleModel.load_from_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt")

Reviewer: quick question. Can It be possible to load the jitted model in the LightningModule?

Author: yes but not with `load_from_checkpoint`.
```py
model = LitModel(...)
traced = model.to_torchscript(method='script')
model.load_state_dict(traced.state_dict())
```
should we extend the API to load jit checkpoints?

Reviewer: Yes, I think it would be great.

Reviewer: ```py
    class SingleLayerMLP(nn.Module):

        def __init__(self, in_features=64, out_features=4, **kwargs):
            super().__init__(self)
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self, in_features=64, out_features=4):
            super().__init__()
            self.mlp = SingleLayerMLP(in_features=in_features, out_features=out_features)

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.mlp(x)

    model = SimpleModel()
    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(gpus=2)
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
    trainer.save_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt", weights_only=True)
    # use model after training or load weights and drop into the production system
 
    # In a production environment without PyTorch Lightning.
    checkpoint = torch.load("best_model.ckpt")
    model = SingleLayerMLP(**checkpoint['hyper_parameters'])
    # Remove the MLP key used within the 
    state_dict = {'.'.join(x.split('.')[1:]): v for k in checkpoint['state_dict'].items()}
    model.load_state_dict(state_dict)
```

Author: this is `within Lightning` section, using it with native PT is defined below.

`TorchScript <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/jit.html>`_ allows you to serialize your models in a way that it can be loaded in non-Python environments.
The ``LightningModule`` has a handy method :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.to_torchscript` that returns a scripted module which you
can save or directly use.

.. code-block:: python

    class SimpleModel(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.l1 = torch.nn.Linear(in_features=64, out_features=4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return torch.relu(self.l1(x.view(x.size(0), -1)))

    # create the model
    model = SimpleModel()
    script = model.to_torchscript()

    # save for use in production environment
    torch.jit.save(script, "model.pt")

It is recommended that you install the latest supported version of PyTorch to use this feature without limitations.

Once you have the exported model, you can run it in Pytorch or C++ runtime:

.. code-block:: python

    inp = torch.rand(1, 64)
    scripted_module = torch.jit.load("model.pt")
    output = scripted_module(dummy_input)

------------

PyTorch Runtime
===============

> You can also load the saved checkpoint and use it as a regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`. You can extract all your :class:`torch.nn.Module`

Reviewer: Let's talk about the best practices. They shouldn't be more than 1 direct children for the lightning module.

and load the weights using the checkpoint saved using LightningModule after training. For this, we recommend copying the exact implementation
from your LightningModule ``init`` and ``forward`` method.

.. code-block:: python

    class Encoder(nn.Module):
        ...

    class Decoder(nn.Module):
        ...

>     class AutoEncoder(LightningModule):
>         def __init__(self):
>             super().__init__()
>             self.encoder = Encoder()
>             self.decoder = Decoder()
> 
>         def forward(self, x):
>             return self.encoder(x)
> 
>         def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
>             x, y = batch
>             y_hat = self.encoder(x)
>             y_hat = self.decoder(y_hat)
>             loss = ...
>             return loss
> 
> 
>     class AutoEncoderProd(nn.Module):
>         def __init__(self):
>             super().__init__()
>             self.encoder = Encoder()
>             self.decoder = Decoder()
> 
>         def forward(self, x):
>             return self.encoder(x)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    class AutoEncoderProd(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.encoder = Encoder()
            self.decoder = Decoder()

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.encoder(x)
            
       
    class AutoEncoderSystem(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self, auto_encoder):
            super().__init__()
            self.auto_encoder = auto_encoder
       
        def forward(self, x):
            return self.auto_encode.encoder(x)

        def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
            x, y = batch
            y_hat = self.auto_encode.encoder(x)
            y_hat = self.auto_encode.decoder(y_hat)
            loss = ...
            return loss
```

Author: better! thanks!

    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(gpus=2)
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
    trainer.save_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt")

    # create the PyTorch model and load the checkpoint weights

>     model = AutoEncoderProd()

Reviewer: To reload the model, we would need to drop the auto_encoder key.

Author: done!

.. _production_inference:

#######################
Inference in Production
#######################

> Once a model is trained, deploying to production and running inference is the next task. To help you with it, following are the possible approaches
> you can use to deploy and use your models for inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a model is trained, deploying to production and running inference is the next task. To help you with it, here are the possible approaches
you can use to deploy and make inferences with your models.
```

------------

******************
With Lightning API
******************

> Following are some possible ways you can use Lightning to run inference in production. Note that this can introduce extra required Lightning dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The followings are some possible ways you can use Lightning to run inference in production. Note that PyTorch Lightning has some extra dependencies and using raw PyTorch might be advantageous.  
```

in your production environment.

------------

Prediction API
==============

Lightning provides you with a prediction API that can be accessed using :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer.predict`.

> To configure this with LightningModule, you need to override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this with your LightningModule, you would need to override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method.
```

By default :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` calls the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.forward`

> method. In order to customize this behaviour, simply override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method. In order to customize this behaviour, simply override the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.predict_step` method. This can be useful to add some pre-processing or post-processing logic to your data.
```

For the example let's override ``predict_step`` and try out `Monte Carlo Dropout <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.02142.pdf>`_:

.. code-block:: python

    class LitMCdropoutModel(pl.LightningModule):
        def __init__(self, model, mc_iteration):
            super().__init__()
            self.model = model
            self.dropout = nn.Dropout()
            self.mc_iteration = mc_iteration

>         def predict_step(self, batch, batch_idx):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       @torch.jit.export
        def predict_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
```

            # enable Monte Carlo Dropout
            self.dropout.train()

            # take average of `self.mc_iteration` iterations
            pred = [self.dropout(self.model(x)).unsqueeze(0) for _ in range(self.mc_iteration)]
            pred = torch.vstack(pred).mean(dim=0)
            return pred

------------

PyTorch Runtime
===============

> You can also load the saved checkpoint and use it as a regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use your checkpoint with regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`.
```

Reviewer: @rohitgr7 This example is confusing as the SimpleModel is actually a LightningModule.

Author: yes, but this is under `Within Lightning` section, and since it's just an nn.Module, here we are telling that LightningModule instances are not different and can be used just like an `nn.Module` instance by just calling `model(inputs)`.

from your LightningModule ``init`` and ``forward`` method.

.. code-block:: python

    class Encoder(nn.Module):
        ...

    class Decoder(nn.Module):
        ...

    class AutoEncoderProd(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.encoder = Encoder()
            self.decoder = Decoder()

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.encoder(x)

    class AutoEncoderSystem(LightningModule):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.auto_encoder = AutoEncoderProd()

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.auto_encoder.encoder(x)

        def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
            x, y = batch
            y_hat = self.auto_encoder.encoder(x)
            y_hat = self.auto_encoder.decoder(y_hat)
            loss = ...
            return loss

    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(devices=2, accelerator="gpu", strategy="ddp")
    model = AutoEncoderSystem()
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)
    trainer.save_checkpoint("best_model.ckpt")

    # create the PyTorch model and load the checkpoint weights
    model = AutoEncoderProd()

>     checkpoint_weights = torch.load("best_model.ckpt")
>     model_weights = checkpoint_weights["state_dict"]
> 
>     # update keys by dropping `auto_encoder.`
>     for key in list(model_weights):
>         model_weights[key.replace("auto_encoder.", "")] = model_weights.pop(key)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    checkpoint = torch.load("best_model.ckpt")
    hyper_parameters = checkpoint["hyper_parameters"]
    
    model = AutoEncoderProd(**hyper_parameters)
    
    state_dict = checkpoint["state_dict"]

    # update keys by dropping `auto_encoder.`
    for key in list(model_weights):
        model_weights[key.replace("auto_encoder.", "")] = model_weights.pop(key)
```

    torch.jit.save(script, "model.pt")

It is recommended that you install the latest supported version of PyTorch to use this feature without limitations.

Once you have the exported model, you can run it in Pytorch or C++ runtime:

.. code-block:: python

    inp = torch.rand(1, 64)
    scripted_module = torch.jit.load("model.pt")
    output = scripted_module(dummy_input)

---------------

********************
Using Python Runtime
********************

You can also load the saved checkpoint inside a Python runtime and use it as a regular :class:`torch.nn.Module`.

.. code-block:: python

    model = SimpleModel()

    # train it
    trainer = Trainer(gpus=2)
    trainer.fit(model, train_dataloader, val_dataloader)

    # use model after training or load weights and drop into the production system
    model.eval()
    with torch.no_grad():

>         y_hat = model(x)

Reviewer 3: This came up previously on the "Lightning for production" discussion here: https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/qgqq07/d_is_pytorch_lightning_production_ready/

One of the risks that using the whole LightningModule as an nn.Module introduces is all of the dependencies it brings in, which may not be suitable for a production environment.

I think the simplest option for users is to extract their nn.Modules & weights from their LightningModule to be used for inference in production.

Author: made some updates! mind review?
